Bread Financial / Volusion Integration Guide
----------------------------

# Installation

1. Unzip and upload the contents of bread.zip to the volusion store via sftp into a folder
   named "bread".
2. Rename the bread/dashboard/settings.default.inc to bread/dashboard/settings.inc
3. Log into the volusion administration screen.
4. Edit the theme template via: Design > File Editor > template_xxx.html
5. Add the following script tag to the bottom of the template just before the
   closing </body> tag.

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="/v/bread/js/bread.controller.js"></script>
```
   
**Notes:**
If the Volusion site being installed to does not contain a reference to a version of
jQuery greater than or equal to 1.11.x in the window.jQuery variable, the following 
code must also be added just before the bread.controller.js script tag.

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="//ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.11.1/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">
$jQueryModern = jQuery.noConflict(true);
</script> 
```

## Bread Configuration

The module can be configured by visiting your store url appended with /v/bread/dashboard  
Example: https://xyz.store-domain.com/v/bread/dashboard

Login with the default password of "bread". After initial setup, make sure to change your
password.

**Environment**

 - Sandbox: Using the sandbox environment makes requests against the Bread Finance sandbox
   api. It should only be used for testing using sandbox credentials provided by Bread Finance.
 - Production: The production environment is used for real transactions and requires live api
   credentials.

**Bread Tenant**
 - US merchants should select ADS. Canadian merchants should select RBC

**Bread Version**
 - After May 2023, all merchants should be using the "platform" setting here

**Bread 2.0 and Classic API Key & Secret**
   
The bread api key and secret are provided from your account interface on Bread Finance. You only need either a 2.0 or Classic key and secret. If you're not sure which version you're using, contact Bread Support

**Bread 2.0 and Classic Authorization**

The authorization to the bread finance api must be obtained using a basic authorization header
generator such as: https://www.blitter.se/utils/basic-authentication-header-generator/

Your api key is the username and your secret key is the password. Copy any paste the
authorization string starting with the word "Basic".

**Disable Product Page Button**
*2.0 Only*
Checking this box will prevent the Bread button from showing up on the details pages of each product

**Disable Cart Page Button**
*2.0 Only*
Checking this box will prevent the Bread button from showing up on the cart page

**Disable Product Page Button**
*Classic only*
Do not allow users to complete single item purchases directly from the product page. Instead, the bread button will only show available financing rates and the user must add the product to their cart to begin the checkout.

**Disable Cart Page Checkout**
*Classic Only*
Do not allow users to complete a bread checkout from the cart page. Instead, the bread button will only show available financing rates and the user must continue to the actual checkout page to complete a bread checkout.

**Bread Payment Method Id**
The bread payment method id allows you to choose which payment method should be selected 
for your orders when checking out using financing from Bread Finance. You can see the ID's 
of your existing payment methods (and create new ones) from your volusion admin dashboard
at: Settings > Payment > More Payment Types (then click the "View List" button at the top
right of the screen.)

**Auto Settle**

Confirm with your Bread representative before using the auto settle feature.

**Bread Container CSS**

The container css allows the bread container element to be styled on the page.

**Custom Button CSS**

The custom button css is passed through to the button when its generated by the Bread Finance
javascript. This css string must be entered all on one line and must not include any double
quotes.